.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.TH WINKEYDAEMON "1" "2018-01-28" "Winkeydaemon" "K1EL keyer driver"
.
.SH NAME
winkeydaemon \- Morse Code daemon for the Winkey hardware keyer module
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY winkeydaemon
.OP \-nemV
.OP \-d "serial device"
.OP \-b "baud rate"
.OP \-p "UDP port"
.OP \-q string
.OP \-s speed
.YS
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B winkeydaemon
is a program written in Perl used to control the the K1EL Winkey2 keyer and
some others that offer the K1EL protocol emulation such as the Hamgadgets
Master Keyer 1. It provides an interface which is compatible to
.BR cwdaemon ,
which means it can be used in its place.
.B winkeydaemon
listens on a
.SM UDP
socket and outputs commands to the K1EL keyer on a serial port.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.B winkeydaemon
accepts the following options:
.TP
.B \-e
turn on winkeyer's 'paddle echo' and to make the daemon transmit echos as UDP
datagrams.
.IP
Use the 'netcat' utility on the target machine to display echoes, e.g. 'nc -u
-l -p 6790'. The target machine is set by <Hostname:Port> (default: localhost:6790).
.TP
.BI \-d\  device
Serial device to be used (default is
.IR /dev/ttyUSB0 ).
.TP
.BI \-b\  "baud rate"
Serial device baud rate (default is
.IR 1200 ).
.TP
.B \-m
Turns off ('mutes') sidetone in host mode on version 2 and 3 keyers.
.TP
.B \-n
Enable debug mode. Don't fork daemon, run in foreground.
.TP
.BI \-p\  port
UDP port to be used (default is
.IR 6789 ).
.TP
.BI \-q\  string
.IR "QRV string" ,
transmitted on start-up.
.TP
.BI \-s\  speed
Speed (default is
.I 24
words per minute).
.TP
.B \-V
Prints version, then exits.
.
.SH CONFORMING TO cwdaemon
A command consists of either a string of
.SM ASCII
text to be sent as Morse Code by the keyer, or a string consisting of a leading
ESCape character (decimal 27) followed immediately by a numeral or a single
.SM ASCII
command character and an additional numeric value, depending on the command.
.P
.B winkeydaemon
accepts the following cwdaemon commands:
.TP
.B <ESC>\*(lq0\*(rq
Reset to default values
.TP
.BI <ESC>\*(lq2 speed \*(rq
Set keying speed (5 ... 60 WPM)
.TP
.B <ESC>\*(lq4\*(rq
Abort message
.TP
.B <ESC>\*(lq5\*(rq
Stop (Exit) the daemon
.TP
.BI <ESC>\*(lq7 weight \*(rq
Set weighting (-50 ... 50)
.TP
.BI <ESC>\*(lqc x \*(rq
Tune x seconds long (limit = 10 seconds)
.TP
.BI <ESC>\*(lqd delay \*(rq
PTT on delay (0 ... 50ms)
.TP
.B \*(lqAny message\*(rq
Send Morse Code message
.TP
.B \*(lqqrz de pa0rct +test-\*(rq
Increase and decrease speed on the fly in 2 WPM steps (each \(aq+\(aq and
\(aq-\(aq character in the string increases and decreases the Morse
speed by 2 WPM, for example, +++test--- will cause the word
\*(lqtest\*(rq to be sent 6 WPM faster than the preceeding text (if any)
and the succeeding text (if any)  will be sent at the set speed).
.
.SH NOTES
The Perl module
.B Device::SerialPort
is required.  For Debian and derivatives this can be found as the
libdevice-serialport-perl package.  For Slackware and derivatives this can be
found on
.UR http://slackbuilds.org
Slackbuilds dot org
.UE
as the perl-Device-SerialPort build script.  Other distributions will vary.
It is always available from
.UR https://metacpan.org/release/Device-SerialPort
meta::cpan
.UE .
.P
While an
.BR init (8)
script is included, running
.B winkeydaemon
as a system daemon is not required.  A normal user account can run
.B winkeydaemon
as long as the account is a member of the group of the serial device
(often dialout but can vary).
.
.SH BUGS
A lack of testing on a wider range of keyers.
.P
Bug reports and patches can be reported through the
.UR https://github.com/N0NB/winkeydaemon
GitHub Web site
.UE .
.
.SH EXAMPLE
Start
.B winkeydaemon
using a custom serial device name:
.P
.EX
winkeydaemon -d /dev/mk1
.EE
.
.SH AUTHORS
.B winkeydaemon
was originally written by Rein Couperus, PA0R.
.P
Joop Stakenborg, PG4I, developed a package for the Debian GNU/Linux
distribution adding a manual page and an init script.
.P
Wilbert Knol, PE7T, extended it to work with the Winkeyer USB models.
.P
Nate Bargmann, N0NB, collated the various works and is hosting the project
at
.UR https://github.com/N0NB/winkeydaemon
GitHub
.UE .
.PP
This manual page was originally written by Joop Stakenborg, PG4I,
for the Debian project (but may be used by others).  It has been expanded by
Nate Bargmann, N0NB.
